---
title: How the Web Works, HTTP Request/Response
length: 60
tags: http, servers
---

### Learning Goals

* Define the 'Vocabulary' of the web
* Describe the Request/Response Cycle
* Explain Verb/Path combinations

### Vocab

* Client
* Server
* URL
* URI
* Request
* Response
* HTTP
* Verb
* Path


## Client and Server

The basis of all web interactions is someone asking for information, and receiving information. In order to ask for and receive any information, we need two players - the asker and the producer. In basic web interactions, the 'asker' is a **client** and the 'producer' is a **server**.

In the web development world, a client is a web browser, not an individual person.  The person using the browser is referred to as a **user**.  Users tell a client to ask for information by giving it a **URL**.

## What is "URL"?

- "Universal Resource Locator"

A URL allows us to send data to, or retrieve, a "resource" on the Internet. A resource could be a page of HTML content, it could be an image or music file, or it could be part of a web application that will save data you send to it.

### URL vs URI

You may also hear the term "URI" when talking about things on the Internet. A "URI", or "Universal Resource Identifier" is not the same as a URL, but it's easy to confuse them.

A URI is part of a URL. See below:


#### Parts of a URL

A URL can be split into distinct parts:

* Protocol: `http://` - Tells us the application protocol we will be using to interact on the web.
* Domain: `task-manager.herokuapp.com` - Tells us where the resources we are trying to access are located (tied to an IP address using DNS).
* Path: `/task/new` - The specific path for the resources that we are trying to access at that location.
* Query String: `?title=New&task=Task` - Params that give our server additional information about what we would like to access.
* Fragment Identifier: `#new_form_anchor` - An indicator of a specific section of a website we would like to view (e.g. if there is an anchor tag tied to a heading half way down the page). This can be seen by visiting [this](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_querying.html#array-conditions) link to the rails docs which references the `array-conditions` section of the Query Interface page.

The "Domain", "Path", and "Query String" combined indicate a unique "identifier" for a resource, and all three of these pieces are a "URI".

We will be covering more specifics around these parts of the URL later in the module - for now, it is important that you know that these parts exist.

## The Request and Response Cycle

As we start to build out web applications, it is important to be able to visualize the way information flows through the system; typically called the Request/Response Cycle.

First a user gives a client a URL, the client builds a **request** for information (or resources) to be generated by a server.  When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in the request to build a **response** that contains the requested information. Once built, that response is sent back to the client in the requested format, to be rendered to the user.

It is our job as web developers to build out and maintain servers that can successfully build responses based on standardized requests that will be received.  But, what does a standard request look like?  We need to know that before we can start building servers that will respond successfully.

The standard, or **protocol** we use is **HTTP**.

## HTTP Requests and Responses

The HyperText Transfer Protocol gives us rules about how messages should be sent around the Internet. The system that initiates a connection sends a "request", and the system the answers sends a "response".

### HTTP Request

When a "client" (like a web browser) retrieves information, it sends a payload of data to a server as a "request". This request is made up of three main parts:

- A Request line, containing three piece of information:
  - the HTTP method (also called a **verb**) for sending or retrieving information
  - the URI **path** of the resource where we're sending or retrieving information
  - the version of the HTTP protocol our "client" software is using

- Headers, which is a key/value pair, which contain supplimental information about our request

- An optional body; we only send data to the server in the body when we are creating or modifying something


### HTTP Response

When the server or web application is finished processing our request, it will send back a response which is a payload of data, and is made up of three main parts:

- a Status line, containing three pieces of information:
  - The version of the HTTP protocol that this response is using
  - a 3-digit numeric "status code"
  - a user-friendly string description of what the "status code" means

- Headers, also sent as key/value pairs similar to the HTTP request

- An optional body; almost all responses will contain additional data in the body. In mod 2, our "body" payload will almost always be HTML.

## Verb and Path

For now, we are going to focus on the **verb** and **path** pieces of the HTTP request - they are the first pieces we will need to learn to deal with in order to make a successful response.

Every request needs to be able to tell a server *what* information is requested and *how* that information is being requested.  The *what* is the **path**, the URI indicating what resource this request is referencing.  The *how* is the **verb**, indicating what actions the server should take regarding the requested resource.  While the path can vary greatly based on the application, the verbs follow common patterns.  There are 5 common HTTP verbs:

- GET - retrieve some information to be READ by the client/user
- POST - CREATE a new resource with information contained in the request
- PUT - UPDATE an entire resource with information contained in the request
- PATCH - UPDATE a part of a resource with information contained in the request
- DELETE - DESTROY a resource, typically indicating that it is removed from the database

With these 5 verbs, we send requests that allow us to perform all CRUD functions for resources in a database!

## Seeing HTTP requests and responses in action

Let's open a terminal and run some commands to connect to Google's home page.

Enter `curl google.com -v` in a terminal window and review the output.

```
* Rebuilt URL to: google.com/
*   Trying 2607:f8b0:400f:800::200e...
* Connected to google.com (2607:f8b0:400f:800::200e) port 80 (#0)
> GET / HTTP/1.1
> Host: google.com
> User-Agent: curl/7.43.0
> Accept: */*
>
< HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
< Location: http://www.google.com/
< Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
< Date: Thu, 31 Aug 2017 01:09:30 GMT
< Expires: Sat, 30 Sep 2017 01:09:30 GMT
< Cache-Control: public, max-age=2592000
< Server: gws
< Content-Length: 219
< X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
< X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
<
<HTML><HEAD><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8">
<TITLE>301 Moved</TITLE></HEAD><BODY>
<H1>301 Moved</H1>
The document has moved
<A HREF="http://www.google.com/">here</A>.
</BODY></HTML>
* Connection #0 to host google.com left intact
```

The `>` symbols indicate part of the request being sent to the server. The `<` symbols indicate the response coming back to our system. Notice:

* Request
    * The request line with a verb, URI path, and HTTP protocol.
    * The headers providing a host, user agent (identifying the browser or client software), and an indication of the type of response the client will accept.
    * Empty body.
* Response
    * The status line with an HTTP protocol, the status code and reason phrase.
    * Headers.
    * A Body with HTML.

Sending a `curl` request to https://google.com will provide the actual site that is displayed when we visit google in a browser.

#### curl Student Site

Send a `curl` request to a web site of your choice. Note many of the same pieces from the request/response above, with slightly more HTML. Also note, the CSS is not in any way included in the response when you make a request to a student site (unless they used inline CSS). In order to get a CSS file we need to make a second request to something like `https://username.github.io/main.css`.

### Questions

* What are the parts of an HTTP request?
* What are the parts of an HTTP response?
* What is the purpose of the different parts of a URL?
