---
title: December 16, 2016
layout: outline
---


## Announcements

## All

### Surveys
* [1606-B]()
* [1608-B](https://goo.gl/forms/3tB5gGgdAFi9XMQM2)
* [1610-B](https://goo.gl/forms/pBDdEBykGXxQIt1o2)
* [1611-B](https://docs.google.com/a/casimircreative.com/forms/d/1Ea4So4SHWho-DVSasgFMOPs4MvmqHq-KRU6by7o2A7o/edit)

## Guest Speaker: Christopher Gantz (9:00 - 10:00)
*Guaranty Bank, S300*

Christopher Gantz successfully leverages his extensive mathematical, computer engineering and investment management expertise to enhance the design and implementation of various analytic software models/tools utilized to continuously improve quantitative investment research, analysis and forecasting.  

As a Senior Investment Analyst and subject matter expert, he is an integral member of the Investment group that is responsible for implementing and executing the firms Investment Research, Portfolio Management, Portfolio Trading and Proprietary Technology development, integration and deployment.  

Mr. Gantz utilizes his skills to enhance the quantitative elements that drive AMG's investment manager selection, due diligence process and the stock selection process for the AMG Portfolio Strategies. He is also a member of several key decision making committees.  

His primary work focus is in the areas of Quantitative Investment Research and Portfolio Management. He is the lead/primary designer and developer for various key quantitative analytic software model/tool projects i.e. designing, implementing, testing, integrating and maintaining the corresponding software and database repository. He is also a key contributor to both the underlying architecture and process.  

Prior to joining AMG, Christopher was an accomplished advanced software system applied researcher and software developer for a variety of firms including: Sun Microsytems, Bell Laboratories, US West Advanced Technologies and the Mitre Coporation.  

He has earned several education degrees to enhance his career as a financial and computer engineer including a Masters of Science in Finance and he expects to complete his Ph.D. in Engineering (with a computer engineering concentration) in the near future.  

Christopher has been honored as the recipient of several educational scholarships including the prestigious Daniels College of Business Marsico Scholarship and a Doctoral Fellowship at the University of Denver.  


***

## Instructional Time (10:10 - 12:00)

| Cohort | Location | Lesson Plans |
| ------ | -------- | ------------ |
| 1606-b | Gusto | Technical Interview Prep |
| 1608-b | Classroom C | Mock Assessment Roadshow w/ Josh & Lauren |
| 1610-b | Basement | Mid-Mod Diagnostics & Project Work Time |
| 1611-b | Classroom A | Portfolio Work Time & Diagnostic|

## Brown-Bag Lunch Roulette (12:00 - 1:15)

* Suggestions on where to eat your brown bags [here](http://goo.gl/mHcSpv).
* Group assignments [here](https://github.com/turingschool/interdisciplinary-planning/blob/master/groups/20161216.markdown).

## Gear Up (1:15 - 2:15)
Today's Gear Up for M2-M4 will be on Journey Mapping.

* Markdown [here](https://github.com/turingschool/gear-up/blob/master/journey-mapping.markdown).
* Gear Up groups and location assignments [here](https://github.com/turingschool/interdisciplinary-planning/blob/master/groups/20161216.markdown). **Scroll down to see Gear Up info.**

M1 will be meeting at S300 for their session.


## Friday Spike (2:25 - 3:15)

Sessions and locations listed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1K5JRLoSOHwv4SqE3B6uuXNFuZ9chn3Xop_9fpB9Wyh4/edit?usp=sharing).

## Cohort Retro (3:25 - 4:00)

* M1: Classroom A
* M2: Classroom B
* M3: Classroom C
* M4: Gusto

***

## 1610

### Mid-Mod Diagnostics

#### With Sal

* 10:00-10:45 - Laszlo
* 10:45-11:30 - Daniel

#### With Casey

* 9:15-10:00 - Annie
* 10:00-10:45 - Schutte
* 10:45-11:30 - Robbie


## 1611

### Portfolio Work Time / Survey Time (10:00 - 10:30)

### Mid Module Pairing Diagnostic (10:30 - 11:00)

### Diagnostic (11:00 - 12:00)
